Adding a Tips and Tricks section to Edge Book and adding the first page for EIB (#502)
suse-edge/suse-edge.github.io: asciidoc/tips/eib.adoc

= *Edge Image Builder*

.Common

> - If you are in a non-Linux environment, then you are running `Podman` via a virtual machine. This machine is low on resources on its default settings and can cause `Edge Image Builder` to require unreasonable amount of time for resource intensive operations, such as the RPM resolution process. You will need to adjust the resources of the podman machine, either by using Podman Desktop (settings cogwheel -> podman machine edit icon) or directly  via the `podman-machine-set` https://docs.podman.io/en/stable/markdown/podman-machine-set.1.html[command]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you are in a non-Linux environment and following these instructions to build an image, then you are likely running `Podman` via a virtual machine. By default, this virtual machine will be configured to have a small amount of system resources allocated to it and can cause instability for `Edge Image Builder` during resource intensive operations, such as the RPM resolution process. You will need to adjust the resources of the podman machine, either by using Podman Desktop (settings cogwheel -> podman machine edit icon) or directly  via the `podman-machine-set` https://docs.podman.io/en/stable/markdown/podman-machine-set.1.html[command]
```

> - At this point in time, the `Edge Image Builder` is not able to build images in a cross architecture setup, i.e. you have to run it on:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- At this point in time, `Edge Image Builder` is not able to build images in a cross architecture setup, i.e. the desired output architecture needs to match the machine in which you're building on:
```

Author: Thank you!

  * `aarch64` systems (such as Apple Silicon) to build SL Micro `aarch64` images
  * `x86_64` systems (such as Intel) to build SL Micro `x86_64` images.

.Kubernetes
- Creating multi node Kubernetes clusters requires adjusting the `kubernetes` section in the definition file to:
  * list all server and agent nodes under `kubernetes.nodes` 
  * set a virtual IP address that would be used for all non-initializer nodes to join the cluster under `kubernetes.network.apiVIP`
  * optionally, set an API host to specify a domain address for accessing the cluster under `kubernetes.network.apiHost`
To learn more about this configuration, please refer to the https://github.com/suse-edge/edge-image-builder/blob/main/docs/building-images.md#kubernetes[Kubernetes section docs].

- `Edge Image Builder` relies on the hostnames of the different nodes to determine their Kubernetes type (`server` or `agent`). While this configuration is managed in the definition file, for the general networking setup of the machines we can utilize either DHCP or the https://github.com/suse-edge/nm-configurator[nm-configurator component].

> .Simple example of image creation for a multi server node RKE2 cluster with Rancher Prime:

Reviewer 2: I appreciate we're trying to provide examples for the users, but everything below is without context. Perhaps it'd make sense to have a brief explanation about what definition files are, what they entail and provide, and then have some sort of well formatted "Examples" section where we cover:
- single node k3s cluster
- multi node RKE2 cluster
- basic RAW image with some kernel args
- basic ISO image with some OS configs

All of those containing valid values for the different sections and versions matching the latest Edge release e.g. in the example below we have mismatching Rancher and RKE2 release versions and invalid `apiVIP` value.

    apiHost: api.cluster01.edge.suse.com
  nodes: # Multi server cluster
    - hostname: node01.cluster01.edge.suse.com
      type: server
      initializer: true
    - hostname: node02.cluster01.edge.suse.com
      type: server
    - hostname: node03.cluster01.edge.suse.com
      type: server
  helm:
    charts:
      - name: cert-manager
        version: 1.16.1
        repositoryName: jetstack
        targetNamespace: cert-manager
        createNamespace: true
        valuesFile: cert-manager.yaml
      - name: rancher
        version: 2.9.1
        repositoryName: rancher-prime
        targetNamespace: cattle-system
        createNamespace: true
        valuesFile: rancher-prime.yaml
    repositories:
      - name: jetstack
        url: https://charts.jetstack.io
      - name: rancher-prime
        url: https://charts.rancher.com/server-charts/prime

[IMPORTANT]
====
. link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-edge/3.1/html/edge/quickstart-eib.html#id-configuring-os-users[Create an encrypted password]
. Read more on link:https://github.com/suse-edge/edge-image-builder/blob/main/docs/building-images.md#network-configuration[Network Configuration]
====

> **network files:**

Reviewer 2: I still believe these don't bring in any value as a standalone files without explanation. If we follow the suggestion above, we could add a "Note" or "Important" label to clarify that network configuration is required for the multi-node RKE2 example with link to the respective guide.

- At this point in time, the `Edge Image Builder` is not able to build images in a cross architecture setup, i.e. you have to run it on:
  * `aarch64` systems (such as Apple Silicon) to build SL Micro `aarch64` images
  * `x86_64` systems (such as Intel) to build SL Micro `x86_64` images.

.Kubernetes
- Creating multi node Kubernetes clusters requires adjusting the `kubernetes` section in the definition file to:
  * list all server and agent nodes under `kubernetes.nodes` 
  * set a virtual IP address that would be used for all non-initializer nodes to join the cluster under `kubernetes.network.apiVIP`
  * optionally, set an API host to specify a domain address for accessing the cluster under `kubernetes.network.apiHost`
To learn more about this configuration, please refer to the https://github.com/suse-edge/edge-image-builder/blob/main/docs/building-images.md#kubernetes[Kubernetes section docs].

> - `Edge Image Builder` relies on the hostnames of the different nodes to determine their Kubernetes type (`server` or `agent`). While this configuration is managed in the definition file, for the general networking setup of the machines we can utilize either DHCP or the https://github.com/suse-edge/nm-configurator[nm-configurator component].

Author: Done
